[MUSIC]
>> Mike North: Before I post this.
So I'll post this then I'll do another
commit converting the whole thing through.
So that you can see
the finished picture here.
But it's really more of the same,
it's really more of the same stuff.
So does anyone have questions about
where I'm at and how this works.
Where to do what.
>> Speaker 2: I have one question for you.
So if you get a model in from an API or
you get a record from your API.
And then in business somewhere you
add a property onto that record.
>> Mike North: Yeah,
business logic in your UI.
>> Speaker 2: Yeah not in the model but
you just tack it on there like this like
this kind of thing as you're
going through the UI.
And when you refresh that model or
get it updated does it wipe out any
of the properties that you set?
>> Mike North: So you're saying
beyond what is defined in model?
>> Speaker 2: Yep.
>> Mike North: You add
a property to a record.
>> Speaker 2: Yep.
>> Mike North: It will
not be de-serialized.
When you persisted.
And the reason-
>> Speaker 2: That's what I'm asking.
I'm asking if I refreshed
that model from the server,
like say, refreshed my model and,
nothing's changed,
will it wipe off the things I've
set on things that haven't changed?
I've selected a bunch and
then sent in a selected flag.
>> Mike North: I see what you're saying.
So, that's hard to reconcile, right?
Because essentially you have
two changes and there's
not an easy way to determine what should
override what in the case of a conflict.
So one person might say, all right I
made my client site changes an hour ago.
And my, I'm using web sockets and
I'd finally reconnected to my server and
that's the up to date data.
I want the API to supersede.
And someone else might say,
this data's not changing in my API.
I changed it and so
you have to manage that yourself.
>> Speaker 2: The data
doesn't exist immediately.
So I got records coming in I clicked on
them and instead of just used for display.
>> Mike North: Frankly that sounds
a little bit of a fishy use case.
The model should define
the structure of your records and
there is not a really great.
Unless you have a specific
thing you're trying to do,
I would avoid trying to tack things on.
That would go beyond how
the model has defined it.
I will tell you that in
terms of serialization and
deserialization, you're really
looking at the model object,
the factory,
in terms of turning records into JSON.
And so anything you do to
the records themselves will not have
probably the effects you are thinking
of on how things are updated.
Its tough to answer that question cause
it's sought of hypothetical edgy edgy
cornery edge case Any other questions?
Adapters?
Serializers?
Types of APIs Ember works with?
The answer is pretty
much anything restful.
>> Speaker 3: So this question it
sounds to me like, not that uncommon
of a scenario where you have a list of
something and you track what's selected.
Is that something that would
be better put in a component,
and that component would store the state
of what is currently selected?
>> Mike North: Yes.
>> Speaker 3: Dependent
of the model stuff?
>> Mike North: It kind of depends on
whether you intend versus this data so
if you just like get
on some online food or
[INAUDIBLE] investing, you wanna
select a couple things in that state
you know really exist on the client
until you place an order.
You could probably create
an order object and
then whatever is said and done,
persisted that as a whole.
Selection is difficult to wrap my
head around in terms of what you guys
are thinking because that could
mean UI selection state or
I am doing course registration and
I'm persisting that I've registered for
these courses, I'm not sure what you mean.
>> Speaker 3: Thank you,
I can go into more detail.
>> Mike North: Yeah.
>> Speaker 3: So I've got a list of items,
and I am explain the inside of
a component that has a check box in it.
Outside of that component I got
siblings to the list of items.
I've got a count and some actions and some
buttons that say leave all those things
I've selected, copy all those things I've
selected, do something with those things.
So I go to check them, I tack on
an inselected property to the record.
Not being persistent, only use when I
use the UI and only use when I click
right into the buttons to say
anything I selected, act upon.
>> Mike North: Totally
get what you're saying.
>> Speaker 3: And every once in a while
I want to reach into the API and
say are there any new records.
I got three new records pop them into
the list but don't deselect my stuff.
>> Mike North: What I would advise there
is you take a different approach to
holding selection state.
And that you potentially have a separate
object that represents [CROSSTALK]
instead of having the objects know about
being selected [CROSSTALK] and not.
Because remember the purpose
of the model is to represent,
usually, a persistent data structure.
And to tack things on
it that are a UI only
concern may have some
unexpected side effects.
>> Speaker 3: Maybe a service
is a good spot for that.
>> Mike North: Yeah I would say
totally an array on a service.
Or an array on something like that.
A service of course is global in a.
So if that fits it's
probably a good option.
Question from the web.
>> Speaker 4: Yeah, we had a couple.
There is wondering Windows that data get
refreshed like if new repo is added would
nullit show up.
>> Mike North: So good question.
So I assume that means if someone,
some other user through gethub,
you know while we are looking
at this page Creates a new repo.
Out of the box nothing, no effort is
made to try to keep that in sync.
We don't, by default we don't poll for
changes to data.
What you can do is you can
unload all records of a type.
So the way the caching works,
there's a separate
bucket of the cash on a per model basis.
And you can say you know every ten
minutes, unload all of the repos
you just have some you know, ember run
later that will take care of that.
And then you know the next time you come
back to that page and you need data.
There's nothing in the cache anymore and
if you've used this logic we
talked about or you checked to see
is there anything in there, if not,
go and request it from the API.
That's where that can happen.
So you really have to manage
that yourself and the reason is
that's more about your particular
application than anything else.
If you're building a real
time trading platform,
you probably don't want
to cache anything at all.
You want the latest data no matter what
except for maybe like ticker symbols and
you can say, all right,
Coke's ticker symbol is not changing.
You know Yahoo is gonna be
Y-H-O-O even an hour from now.
But the price,
I don't want that to be cache at all.
So there is some hooks where
you can disable cash in other
pro-model basis if you need to.
But that is so specific to a particular
app that Ember data does not
aim to try to lean one way or the other.
>> Speaker 5: [INAUDIBLE]
>> Mike North: And many things.
>> Speaker 5: Many things.
>> Mike North: [LAUGH] All right any
questions?
Okay.
>> Speaker 4: The second one was,
when talking of components.
Is it okay in some cases to do an Ajax,
somebody had a code to populate it,
like a graphic component?
>> Mike North: So, I,
that's an easy question to answer today.
Because you should probably be
doing your Ajax in a route.
And we have these things
called controllers for now.
That are sort of the default context for
things.
And controllers currently
have access to the store.
And, although it's not advised,
it's sort of set up so
that you could request
data via the controller.
I would say, really what you
want to do is do it in a route,
pass it to the component.
And the reason is, you know,
components should really be more about
visualizing and permitting
the manipulation of application state.
But the state should be owned elsewhere
and that's cuz they get destroyed and
created every time you transition to and
from page and
you want state to live on something
that lives a little longer.
>> Speaker 4: And
then another one just came in.
Will we be showing any
examples of saving data?
Is there a way to do mass saves in one
post, or are they all separate calls?
>> Mike North: There
is a way to save data,
and you're gonna have to look at the
documentation for that cuz I could spend
five or six hours going through
all the edges and corners of this.
It's pretty self explanatory.
So, you change properties and
measure width that it is 30.
You can check to see if it's 30 or
not and then save it.
And that's useful so that as you turn
to navigate away from your page.
You can say, like, are you sure you
want to discard your changes, and
then roll it back to its previously,
known clean state.
So that all exists there.
The idea of bulk operations, bulk saving,
bulk editing, is a really,
really hard problem to solve.
There is no solution for it in Ember data.
That is to say there is no like
adopted pattern for doing it.
But yeah we absolutely did do that.
And it was An approach that
I really wanna describe
because I don't want people to follow it
and say Mike told you cuz to do this.
[LAUGH] So but
one good sign here if you look at
Jasonapi.org one of these sort of
extensions to the course back is you
know a good standard URL and
JSON contract for
bulk operations of various kinds.
And so the fact that the standard
exists means that ember data as one of
the first class implementors of JSON API,
it will hopefully come eventually I'm not
aware of any specific developments in
that area, but at least it's in the spec.
And so
I think that it would be good to see.
>> Speaker 5: Could you just in JSON p
which is the old one which is the new
[INAUDIBLE].
>> Mike North: JSON p,
JSON API is a schema URL and
a JSON schema and
JSONP is a means of having
AJAX without AJAX by way of loading JSON
as if it's JavaScript in a script tag.
but Json API is definitely newer.
And the thing I would
compare it to is hal,
which is like this hyper media
standard json in URL format.
It's an attempt to avoid bike shutting.
Which is this effect of like people making
little trivial decisions that sort of
cause a lot of noise and
variance between different APIs and
even different endpoints
within the same API.
And to agree on like this is
the way we do relationships,
this is the way we represent attributes,
this is how we tell you that you've
asked for a list of objects and
you're on page 6 of 15, here's how we're
passing that information back to you.
Because once you have a standard,
once you have a convention, you
can save people a lot of time by the pile
of work that can be considered boilerplate
that just works, becomes much larger.
Compared to having to do
everything from scratch.
>> Speaker 5: So does it cover up on
the equipment of the SQL query when
it's ordered by this?
>> Mike North: Yeah, it covers ordering.
>> Speaker 5: Right.
>> Mike North: Like sorting.
It covers pagination.
It covers even the ability to include
related records with a response.
So if I was asking for the org and
please include the complete list of repos
fully fleshed out in your response.
You know the spec includes that.
So there's a lot there.
And various implementations
of JSON API I'm not sure
if there's anything that
completely implements the spec.
But the idea is if we are going to
move forward and implement a feature,
this is the spec that things
will try to align with.